Call room room type (#3417)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/3417-call-room-type.md

# MSC3417 Call room room type

[MSC3401](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/3401) defines how native
Matrix group calls can work. It allows for immersive voice/video/call rooms.

> [MSC1840](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1840) proposes a way of

Reviewer: There's also a subtyping proposal out there, and room typing as introduced by spaces. Would be good if this proposal acknowledged those as well.

information from the `m.room.create` state event is used instead.

### Example

```HTTP
POST /_matrix/client/r0/createRoom
{
    "preset": "private_chat",
    "name": "The Grand Duke Pub",
    "topic": "All about happy hour",
    "creation_content": {
        "m.federate": false,
        "type": "m.call",
    }
}
```

## Potential issues

The `m.intent` field in the `m.call` state event could get out of sync with the
value of `type` in the `m.room.create` state event.

## Alternatives

### Using the `m.call` state event

Clients could look for the `m.call` state event and its `m.intent` field though
this feels weird as the room type feels like the place where we should put this.
It also is mutable which isn't ideal (see next section).

### Using the `m.room.type` state event

[MSC1840](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1840) proposes a
different way to give rooms types. While we could use the `m.room.type` state
event, it is mutable which we'd like to avoid in the case of call rooms. Clients
supporting call rooms will present the chat in those rooms as secondary or not
present it at all, so it is beneficial for this to be immutable so that the chat

> history isn't "lost" when changing the room type.

Reviewer 2: I argue that using a separate room type has a different meaning entirely, and I give `m.space` as an example of this: it's very obvious that an `m.space` room is not a regular chat room and should not be used for chat messages (though it _technically_ can). Should that assumption apply to all explicitly typed rooms in general? Should a _chat_ client that does not recognize a room type hide that room from its room list? If so, doesn't that mean the chat of a call room becomes invisible to those clients, even though a user might reasonably expect to be able to see the chat of a call room even if a client doesn't support calls?

This concern with room types might also apply to MSC3815 (Third Room Worlds), where it might make sense for a client user to be able to see the text chat of a room with an ongoing World, even if the client doesn't directly support Third World.

I believe the m.room call intent already implies that any regular room can become a call room in the sense of room mutability, and as such there is no special distinction between a regular room and a call room for the purposes of text chat. So I'm not sure why a client would _hide_ the chat history of such a room if a room call is started. Unless the concern is about UX confusion where the chat is folded away.

I tripped on this issue while messing around with Element sending call state events with the room intent; Element (and by extension matrix-js-sdk) does not seem to recognize Rooms as having ongoing m.room calls yet unless the room itself has the `UnstableCall` (`org.matrix.msc3417.call`) type. So in the presence of this MSC and MSC3401, it is already unclear what a conforming client should do with m.room intent calls.

# MSC3417 Call room room type

[MSC3401](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/3401) defines how native
Matrix group calls can work. It allows for immersive voice/video/call rooms.
[MSC1772](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1772) is a proposal for
Matrix spaces. A part of this proposal is a way to specify a room type.

We should use the `type` field in the `m.room.create` state event to inform
clients about the fact a room is a call room.

## Proposal

This MSC proposes that when creating a call room the `type` field in the
`m.room.create` state event should be set to `m.call`. This way clients can
clearly distinguish between regular chat rooms and call rooms.

> In the case of the `m.intent` field in the `m.call` state event getting out of
> sync with the the `type` field in the `m.room.create` state event, the
> information from the `m.room.create` state event should be preferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of the `m.intent` field in MSC3401's `m.call` state event getting out of
sync with the the `type` field in the `m.room.create` state event, the
information from the `m.room.create` state event is used instead.
```

### Example

```json
POST /_matrix/client/r0/createRoom HTTP/1.1

> Content-Type: application/json

Reviewer: is it json if it has headers?
